Within the domain of robotic
solutions for accessibility,
automation has begun to play an
increasingly bigger role.
Automation can of course be
useful. It can make things
faster and easier. However, the
relationship between automation
and user autonomy ought to be
more critically examined. Let's
take the example of mobile
robotic telepresence. Robotic
telepresence refers to remotely
controlling a robot so as to be
present in another environment,
and this allows people to be in
a space where they could not
travel to in person. Automations
in robotic telepresence include
robots
that can drive autonomously in
space, robots that automatically
follow people in the
environment, robots that
automatically track what is
happening in the environment and
adjust the user's case, robots
that automatically adjust to the
appropriate distance from other
people in the environment, and
even robots that translate what
the user is trying to say into
more polite phrasings.
Some of these automation can
make the robots easier to use,
as they require less input from
the users. However, it also
means that the user has less
control over how the robot
behaves, and this can have
various implications, such as
the fact that the users have
less opportunity for spontaneity
and exploration and less
opportunity for playful close
contact with the world and other
people. Since the movements the
automated movements are robots
tend to be collision avoidant,
our behaviours become more
uniform and filtered through the
robot so there is less diversity
in the behaviours of the robots
Exhibit.
We subjugate control over what
movements and behaviours, um,
are appropriate for robots to
make to the organisations that
design and deploy this
technology.
And users have less control over
their self-expression and they
are less intentional in
participation.
These are just some examples.
Robotic telepresence as well as
other assistive technologies
quite literally mediate between
a person and how their
intentions are manifested in
their world as well as how that
person experiences analysis that
world.
Some Automating this technology
means automating users presence
in the world and the
implications of this need to be
examined.
The relationship between
automation and user autonomy
needs to be better understood.
In some cases this relationship
can be seen as a tradeoff.
Automation makes use easier, but
at the cost of some of the
user's autonomy.
However, there are situations
where it can also be a win win
where automation can enable user
autonomy if it makes it allows
the robot to behave in ways that
respect the user's wishes.
More research on the different
dimensions of automated robot
mediated actions is certainly
needed in conjunction with how
this intersects with disability
and the expression of self
identity with contextual factors
and how it aligns with users
values and needs.